[Docs] Add System Architecture (#26)
TempleEight/temple-docs: TempleEight/docs/arch/system.md

title: System Architecture
sidebar_label: System Architecture
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

On top of generating service-level application code, Temple produces orchestration configuration files to enable executing the services together as a whole system.
This guide will take you through how a Temple generated application is designed on the super-service level.
We'll look at how the system is organised and how it changes with more advanced features.

The details of how the application code in each service is architected can be seen in the [Service Architecture](service) reference.

## Minimal Example

We'll start with the example Templefile from the [Getting Started](../getting-started) Guide.

```templefile
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}
```

Also from the Getting Started Guide is this diagram outlining the system architecture:

<img alt="Tutorial System Architecture" src={useBaseUrl('img/tutorial-architecture.png')} />

> It shows a high level description of the system, detailing how the [Kong API Gateway](https://konghq.com/kong/) sits between the user and the backend services, and how the service communicates with its database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It shows a high level description of the system, detailing how the [Kong API Gateway](https://konghq.com/kong/) sits between the client and the backend services, and how the service communicates with its database.
```

Seems odd to say `user` in prose and `client` in the diagram

Let's delve a little bit deeper into this architecture and see some finer details:

<img alt="System Architecture Deeper" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-basic.png')} />

We can see that all components of our application are executed inside of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers, including Kong.
This allows us to not have to worry about installing it locally, giving this job to our orchestration tool. 
Containers allow us to encapsulate our application components and their dependencies, allowing them to be easily ran anywhere, among many other benefits.

We can also see that Kong uses it's own database to store information about which services exist and how to route requests to them.
Like the rest of the Kong infrastructure, this database is orchestrated automatically by Temple.

> A [`PostgreSQL`](https://www.postgresql.org/) instance sits alongside Kong on a private network, so that only the Kong instance can communicate with it.

Reviewer: Might be worth linking Kong docs at the end, "for more information on Kong...", especially since Docker is linked above

Author: There's a link at the beginning of this paragraph :)

### Docker Compose 

Since [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) is a minimal orchestration platform, the architecture doesn't change from what's mentioned above.

### Kubernetes 

When [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) is used to orchestrate your platform, all of the Docker images used are required to be stored in a [Docker registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/).
To solve this issue, Temple integrates a registry into the Kubernetes infrastructure, and pushes all of the locally generated application images to it during the deployment process.
Third party images like Kong or the Database used are all already stored in public repositories like [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com).

This changes our architecture diagram to look like this:

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-kube.png')} />

## Extending the basic example

As we add more features to our example Templefile, more infrastructure will be generated to support it.

### Foreign Keys

> Each additional service added to our Templefile results in an additional replica of the the service specific infrastructure components seen above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each additional service added to our Templefile results in an additional replica of the service specific infrastructure components seen above.
```

Let's add an extra service to our Templefile as an example:

```templefile {12-14}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}

AnotherService: service {
    baz: int;
}
```

This results in the following changes to our architecture:

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-two-services.png')} />

We can see that all of the existing infrastructure that supported `ExampleService` has been replicated for `AnotherService`, but everything else remains the same.

> We can extend this further by making a Foreign Key reference between services (See the [Foreign Keys](../guide/foreign-keys) guide for full details). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can extend this further by making a Foreign Key reference between services (See the [Foreign Keys & Inter-Service Communication](../guide/foreign-keys) guide for full details). 
```

just to match elsewhere

```templefile {10}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
  foreignKey: AnotherService;
}

AnotherService: service {
    baz: int;
}
```

This has the effect of generating inter-service communication logic in the service-level application code.
On the project level, nothing changes, except the services use the hostname resolution of the orchestration platform to make HTTP requests to each other.

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-foreign-key.png')} />

### Structs

> Adding a struct to a service in your Templefile represents two data items that are strongly coupled (see the [Struct](../guide/structs) guide for details).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a struct to a service in your Templefile represents two data items that are strongly coupled (see the [Structs](../guide/structs) guide for details).
```
ditto

This is implemented in Temple generated projects by extending the parent's application executable to include the additional endpoints required to process struct requests.
The struct's data is stored in a separate table of the service's database. 
This means that when adding structs to your Templefile, the overall system-level architecture doesn't change.

### Auth

As per the [Authentication](../guide/authentication) guide, 

> authentication can be added to your system by augmenting your Templefile to include `#auth` metadata on services, and a `#authMethod` annotation on the project block.

Reviewer: I was under the impression we were calling `#...` metadata tags and `@...` annotations

For example:

> ```templefile {5}{10}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```templefile {5,10}
```

ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
  #authMethod(email);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
  #auth;
}
```

These changes result in an additional `Auth` service being generated automatically that stores and verifies user credentials, and issues authentication tokens to users for use with other services.
This is implemented by configuring Kong to check that any incoming requests have a valid [JWT](https://jwt.io/), except those destined for the auth service. 
Any requests that are not correctly authenticated do not pass Kong, so the internal microservices can be sure that all traffic has been correctly authenticated.

Visually, the changes to our architecture look like:

> <img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-auth.png')} />

Reviewer: not a giant fan of the the star, seems a bit out of place, but if u want it I'm cool with it

please make the text not clip the edges though (of the star or the `C` of the `Docker Container` label)

### Metrics

Temple also includes the ability to generate metrics monitoring suites, using [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/).
For full details of their use and implementations, check out the [Metrics](../guide/metrics) guide.

Let's add metrics to our example and see how the output changes.

```templefile {5}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
  #metrics(prometheus);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}

> ```

Reviewer: Don't think we need this, this is already in the linked Metrics guide

When a project has metrics, two more infrastructure components are needed, a Prometheus instance and a Grafana instance. 
Prometheus is a tool for aggregating metrics from all your services into one centralised place. 

> Each service contains logic to aggregate metrics about it's performance, which are pulled into Prometheus ready for querying.

Reviewer: I'm bad at English, this correct use of it's? @xsanda

Reviewer: I really need to educate myself on that one

Reviewer 2: It’s = it is
Its = it belongs to

Reviewer: Oh cool, for some reason I always thought there was an edge case  where `it's` is possessive. I can now live my life without avoiding it  😂 a new dawn

title: System Architecture
sidebar_label: System Architecture
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

On top of generating service-level application code, Temple produces orchestration configuration to enable executing the services together as a whole system.
This guide will take you through how a Temple generated application is designed on the super-service level.
We'll look at how the system is organised and how it changes with more advanced features.

The details of how the application code in each service is architected can be seen in the [Service Architecture](service) reference.

## Minimal Example

We'll start with the example Templefile from the [Getting Started](../getting-started) Guide.

```templefile
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}
```

Also from the Getting Started Guide is this diagram outlining the system architecture:

> <img alt="Tutorial System Architecture" src={useBaseUrl('img/tutorial-architecture.png')} />

Reviewer 2: The images need white backgrounds, sorry 😢

> It shows a high level description of the system, detailing how the [Kong API Gateway](https://konghq.com/kong/) sits between the user and the backend services, and how the service communicates with it's database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It shows a high level description of the system, detailing how the [Kong API Gateway](https://konghq.com/kong/) sits between the user and the backend services, and how the service communicates with its database.
```

Let's delve a little bit deeper into this architecture and see some finer details:

<img alt="System Architecture Deeper" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-basic.png')} />

> We can see that all components of our application are executing inside of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers.
> This includes Kong, and allows us to not have to worry about it's installation, since our orchestration tool deals with this for us. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see that all components of our application are executed inside of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers, including Kong.
This allows us to not have to worry about installing it locally, giving this job to our orchestration tool. 
```

Containers allow us to encapsulate our application components and their dependencies, allowing them to be easily ran anywhere, among many other benefits.

> We can also see that Kong uses it's own database to store information about which services exist and how to route requests to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also see that Kong uses its own Postgres database to store information about which services exist and how to route requests to them.
```

> However, this is managed by the orchestration platform automatically, so we don't need to worry about it.

Reviewer 2: Saying "we don't need to worry about it" in a guide about system architecture feels a little off? The whole point is that we deal with it?

> All of the components of the system are deployed by the orchestration platform (see the [Orchestration](../guide/orchestration) Guide for full details). 
> The system architecture can change a little bit based on which platform is chosen. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the components of the system are deployed by the orchestration platform (see the [Orchestration](../guide/orchestration) guide for full details), however the system architecture can change a little bit based on which platform is chosen. 
```

### Docker Compose 

Since [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) is a minimal orchestration platform, the architecture doesn't change from what's mentioned above.

### Kubernetes 

When [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) is used to orchestrate your platform, all of the Docker images used are required to be stored in a [Docker registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/).
To solve this issue, Temple integrates a registry into the Kubernetes infrastructure, and pushes all of the locally generated application images to it during the deployment process.

> Third party images like Kong or the Database used are all already stored in public repositories like [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Third party images like Kong or the Database used are all already stored in public repositories like [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com).
```

Reviewer 2: Also `registry` or `repository`, not sure

This changes our architecture diagram to look like this:

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-kube.png')} />

## Extending the basic example

As we add more features to our example Templefile, more infrastructure will be generated to support it.

### Foreign Keys

Each additional service added to our Templefile results in an additional replica of the the service specific infrastructure components seen above.

Let's add an extra service to our Templefile as an example:

```templefile {12-14}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}

AnotherService: service {
    baz: int;
}
```

This results in the following changes to our architecture:

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-two-services.png')} />

> This isn't surprising.

Reviewer 2: ?

We can extend this further by making a Foreign Key reference between services (See the [Foreign Keys](../guide/foreign-keys) guide for full details). 

```templefile {10}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;

>   foreign-key: AnotherService;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  foreignKey: AnotherService;
```

}

AnotherService: service {
    baz: int;
}
```

This has the effect of generating inter-service communication logic in the service-level application code.
On the project level, nothing changes, except the services use the hostname resolution of the orchestration platform to make HTTP requests to each other.

<img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-foreign-key.png')} />

### Structs

Adding a struct to a service in your Templefile represents two data items that are strongly coupled (see the [Struct](../guide/structs) guide for details).
This is implemented in Temple generated projects by extending the parent's application executable to include the additional endpoints required to process struct requests.
The struct's data is stored in a separate table of the service's database. 

> This means that when adding structs to your Templefile doesn't change the overall system-level architecture at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that when adding structs to your Templefile, the overall system-level architecture doesn't change.
```

### Auth

> As per the [Authentication](../guide/authentication) Guide, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As per the [Authentication](../guide/authentication) guide, 
```

authentication can be added to your system by augmenting your Templefile to include `#auth` metadata on services, and a `#authMethod` annotation on the project block.
For example:

```templefile {5}{10}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
  #authMethod(email);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
  #auth;
}
```

> These additions result in an additional `Auth` service being generated automatically that stores and verifies user credentials, and issues authentication tokens to users for use with other services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These additions result in an additional `Auth` service being automatically generated, taking care of storing and verifying user credentials as well as issuing authentication tokens to clients for use with other services.
```

> This is implemented by configuring Kong to check that any incoming requests have a valid [JWT](https://jwt.io/), except those destined for the auth service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is implemented by configuring Kong to check that any incoming requests have a valid [JWT](https://jwt.io/), except those destined for the `Auth` service. 
```

> Any requests that are not correctly authenticated do not pass Kong, so the internal microservices can be sure that all traffic has been correctly authenticated.

Reviewer 2: ![](https://media.giphy.com/media/8abAbOrQ9rvLG/giphy.gif)

Visually, the changes to our architecture look like:

> <img alt="System Architecture Kube" src={useBaseUrl('img/system-architecture-auth.png')} />

Reviewer 2: Interesting use of the star

### Metrics

Temple also includes the ability to generate metrics monitoring suites, using [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/).
For full details of their use and implementations, check out the [Metrics](../guide/metrics) guide.

Let's add metrics to our example and see how the output changes.

```templefile {5}
ExampleProject: project {
  #language(go);
  #database(postgres);
  #provider(dockerCompose);
  #metrics(prometheus);
}

ExampleService: service {
  foo: string;
  bar: int;
}
```

> When a project has metrics, two more infrastructure components are needed, a Prometheus instance and a Grafana instance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a project has metrics, two more infrastructure components are needed, a Prometheus container and a Grafana container. 
```

> Prometheus is a metrics aggregator.

Reviewer 2: Seems kinda random

> Each service contains logic to aggregate metrics about it's performance, and forwards them on to the Prometheus instance, which collects and stores the metrics from all the services.

Reviewer 2: Hm be careful, Prometheus is a pull system not a push system. I wouldn't say "forwards on"

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like makes them accessible to prometheus
